# LinkedIn_Mastermind2023
A Mastermind game developed by Tre Miller for the 2023 REACH cohort 

# Instructions
This game was created using Python 3.11 on Visual Studio 2023 IDE software. In order to run the program, simply download python 3.11 as well as any IDE software capable of interpreting python 3.11. such as Visual Studio 2023. Next, download my MastermindGame file along with every sound file in the repository. To ensure the game runs correctly, make sure all files are in the same directory before running the game. Finally, run the game.

# Premise
In this game you play as an Avenger, one of Earth's Mightiest Heroes from Marvel Comics. In the Marvel Universe villainy is around every corner. Luckily, so is heroism. Depending on the difficulty selected, you will be tasked with stopping one of three villains (M.O.D.O.K, Dr. Doom, and Galactus) from carrying out their plans to harm the planet. Each of these villains are using doomsday devices to threaten the populace.  To stop these maniacal masterminds you must hack into their devices by decoding the secret sequence and save the day!

# Creative Implementations
Since I discussed how my passion for comic books ignited my flame for programming and technology in my application. I decided to use that same passion to fuel my creativity for this project. As such, I implemented many aspects of my passion into this game such as original soundtracks from Marvel video games, and voice overs from Marvel villains. I attempted to implement artwork representing these characters as well but ran into many bugs and decided to keep it simple. In addition, I implemented a difficulty setting that uses a timer to determine the amount of time the player has to guess the right combination before losing. Finally, I implemented a "play again" feature for those who just can't get enough.

# Thought Process
At the beginning of the design process for this program, I created a schedule for when each phase should be complete. These phases include: conceptualization, research, implementation, testing, and finalization. During the conceptualization phase, I physically drew a design map of the logic of my program and where any potential extensions would fit into the program. During the research phase, I researched what modules and strategies would be the most efficient for implementation. The implementation phase involved putting my imagination down to code. Testing allowed me to pinpoint any errors, potential errors, or exploits that I would fix during finalization. Initially, I wanted to create the foundation of the Mastermind game before adding auxiliary features. Therefore, upon starting this project I programmed all of the mandatory requirements first and used that as a foundational structure to let my creativity build upon. Once the main game was completed I added a timer and decided to use that as the mechanism to increase difficulty. With the timer, I ran into a lot of bugs that would cause it to be inaccurate. Upon testing I realized the issue was that the module I chose to import for the timer was inaccurate and found another option. Next, I added theme music that intensifies with each difficulty further pulling the player into the heat of the moment. Finding a way to implement sound into the program wasn't an issue, but finding a method to do so simultaneously with gameplay was; although in the end I did manage to find the correct module that would enable this feature. Lastly, I added characters that correspond to the selected difficulty and that communicate and intimidate the player, insulting them for losing or cursing the hero for foiling their plans. I did attempt to add a visual element that would display the villain's face after the difficulty was selected. I couldn't manage to figure out an implementation method in time. While I could've taken an object oriented approach, I decided to take a functional approach to this program because designing this project from top down was a more efficient strategy based on the project requirements and time constraints.


